Copyright (c) 2006, 

Battelle Memorial Institute All rights reserved.  

1. Battelle Memorial Institute (hereinafter Battelle) hereby grants permission
to any person or entity lawfully obtaining a copy of this software and
associated documentation files (hereinafter "the Software") to redistribute
and use the Software in source and binary forms, with or without modification.
Such person or entity may use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute,
sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and may permit others to do
so, subject to the following conditions:
* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
  list of conditions and the following disclaimers.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
* Other than as used herein, neither the name Battelle Memorial Institute or
  Battelle may be used in any form whatsoever without the express written
  consent of Battelle.   

2. THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL BATTELLE OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

3. The Software was produced by BMI under Contract No. DE-AC05-76RL01830 with
the Department of Energy.  For five (5) years from February 23, 2006, the
Government is granted for itself and others acting on its behalf a
nonexclusive, paid-up, irrevocable worldwide license in this data to
reproduce, prepare derivative works, and perform publicly and display
publicly, by or on behalf of the Government.  There is provision for the
possible extension of the term of this license.  Subsequent to that period or
any extension granted, the Government is granted for itself and others acting
on its behalf a nonexclusive, paid-up, irrevocable worldwide license in this
data to reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public,
perform publicly and display publicly, and to permit others to do so.  The
specific term of the license can be identified by inquiry made to Battelle or
DOE.  Neither the United States nor the United States Department of Energy,
nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes
any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or
usefulness of any data, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents
that its use would not infringe privately owned rights.  

Open Source License (0102)
